## Getting Started

Provide Solution for autmation framework

## Repoter

In the current playwright framework, I am using the following two types of reporters:

### HTML build-in report

Playwright build-in HTML reporter in Playwright for generating a self-contained report for a test run that can be served as a web page.

Advantages:

- Self-contained report: The HTML report generated by the Playwright HTML reporter is a self-contained folder that contains all the necessary files and resources required to view the report. This makes it easy to share and view the report on different machines without any additional setup.
- Detailed test results: The HTML report provides detailed information about each test case, including the test name, status (pass/fail), duration, and any error messages. This makes it easy to quickly identify any issues that arise during testing.
- Support for parallel testing: The HTML report may provide the same level of support for parallel testing as other reporting tools. For example, it merges reports generated across multiple each tests into a single report.
- Easy to use: The HTML reporter is easy to use and only requires running a command in the terminal.

Weaknesses:

- Limited reporting capabilities: It may not provide advanced analytics or trend analysis that can help you identify patterns and trends in your test results.
- Limited customization options: While the HTML reporter is customizable, it may not provide the same level of customization options as other reporting tools. For example, it may not allow you to customize the layout or styling of the report to the same degree as other tools.

For more information, see the Playwright HTML Test Reports [here](https://playwright.dev/docs/intro#html-test-reports)

### Playwright-Allure report

Allure-playwright is a plugin for Playwright that provides integration with Allure, a popular open-source framework for generating test reports. Allure-playwright extends the functionality of the Playwright test runner by adding support for generating Allure reports, which can provide additional reporting capabilities such as advanced analytics and trend analysis.

Avantages:

- Rich and interactive reports: Allure generates interactive reports that include detailed information about the test run, such as test status, execution time, steps, screenshots, and videos.
- Customizable reports: Allure reports are highly customizable, and you can add your own branding, logos, and other customizations.
- Easy to use: Playwright-Allure report integration is easy to set up and use.

Weakness:

- Limited customization options: Playwright-Allure reports are highly customizable, the level of customization available may be more limited than some other reporting tools. This could make it more difficult to achieve specific formatting or styling requirements for your reports.
- Limited support for parallel testing: Playwright-Allure may not provide the same level of support for parallel testing as other reporting tools. For example, it may not be able to merge reports generated across multiple shards into a single report.

For more information, see the allure-playwright [here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/allure-playwright)

## CI/CD

## GitLab CI/CD

GitLab CI/CD is a powerful and easy-to-use tool for implementing CI/CD pipelines.

Advantages:

- Easy setup: GitLab CI is easy to set up and configure, and Playwright can be easily integrated with GitLab CI.
- Fast and reliable: Playwright is known for its fast and reliable test automation capabilities, and GitLab CI can help you run your tests quickly and efficiently.
- Scalable: GitLab CI is highly scalable, allowing you to run your Playwright tests on a wide range of environments and configurations.
- Integration with other tools: GitLab CI integrates well with other tools, such as Docker, making it easy to create a complete CI/CD pipeline.
- Cloud-based: GitLab CI is cloud-based, meaning you don't need to worry about maintaining your own infrastructure or servers.

Weaknesses:

- Cost: GitLab CI may require a subscription for certain features or usage levels, which may be a consideration for smaller organizations or individual users.

Steps to get started with GitLab CI/CD in Playwright TypeScript

1. Create a GitLab repository: If you haven't already, create a GitLab repository for your Playwright TypeScript project.
2. Create a GitLab CI/CD pipeline file: Create a `.gitlab-ci.yml` file in the root directory of your project. This file defines the CI/CD pipeline for your project.

```
image: node:14

stages:
  - test

test:
  stage: test
  image: mcr.microsoft.com/playwright:v1.31.0-focal
  script:
    - npm ci
    - npm install
    - npx playwright install
    - npm run test
```

3. Run your GitLab CI/CD pipeline: Commit your changes to the GitLab repository, and the pipeline will automatically run your tests using Playwright

For more information, see the Playwright GitLab CI [here](https://playwright.dev/docs/ci#gitlab-ci)
